so low over his rhythm changes to tenor
Conclave this comes from his 1956 album
of the same name in this lesson I want
to examine his solo to see how it's put
together to determine what melodic
elements he uses and how he uses them
and from this analysis I want to build
for you a template of how to solo in the
bebop style essentially I want to use
his solo as a model from which to
generalize a concept of improvisation
the first thing to notice is that he
plays core tones on strong beats these
notes are in blue on the first chord
there B flat major seven plays the G
minor 7 on beat 3 D plays flat seven
this is anticipated played on the end of
2 just played a little bit early early
let me put you in the driver seat so
that you can see firsthand how to
negotiate the changes and manage all of
the decisions that you're confronted
with when you improvise so I'll erase
the notes for now and show you just the
changes how do you go about building the
solo using the four components of chord
tones scale fragments arpeggios and
approach pattern you just you just have
this these blank nicely I'm gonna keep
doing some arpeggio
looking towards that the F of the B flat
major seven chromatically arpeggio chord
scale looking to the root of the next
chord and chromatic from below to get to
get there so that's a way to use the
four components to build a solo let me
leave you with a little more of